# Missing Values

## Introduction

In this activity you will examine and preprocess a dataset with missing data.

## Instructions

Use the Jupyter notebook in the `Unsolved` folder to complete the following steps:

1. Use the provided code to import and split the data.

2. Find the percentage of rows in each column that have missing values. Are there any that stand out?

3. Answer the following question: Would dropping all rows with missing values have a substantial impact on the number of rows available for training the model?

4. To find an alternative to dropping rows, start by using `describe` to gather summary statistics of the other columns in only the rows that are missing data in the backers_count column.

5. Compare those statistics to the summary statistics of the entire dataset. Do any major differences jump out?

6. Perform any other exploratory analysis you see fit. Hint: For this specific example, try making histograms of days_active for the whole dataset and then again only when backers_count is missing.

7. Since backers_count seems to be missing in the first week of a campaign, removing the data would be detrimental. A good choice might be to fill the data using the backers counts from campaigns in Week 2.

8. Create a function to fill missing values with half of the mean of the backers_count column for campaigns in Week 2.

9. Preprocess the training and testing data.

10. Check for missing values.

Finally, consider the following questions:

1. Beyond losing roughly 10% of the data for training, what other impacts might have come from dropping all rows with missing data?

2. Was the value we chose to fill in the best possible choice? Should we have found some way to factor in the overall goal of the project or the current pledged amount?

3. Sometimes the fact that a value is missing is important information in and of itself. How could we have changed our process to preserve that information for the model?

## References

Data for this dataset was generated by edX Boot Camps LLC, and is intended for educational purposes only.

---

© 2023 edX Boot Camps LLC. Confidential and Proprietary. All Rights Reserved.
